# Abstract

Systems utilising autonomous agents are becoming increasingly pervasive in today’s society, garnering commercial interest and research funding in a variety of domains ranging from home automation to undersea exploration. This has stemmed from a resurgence in interest in Artificial Intelligence over the last number of years. Globally, we are starting to move towards an age of automation through physical and software systems that exhibit redundancy, modularity and robustness. Research into how to induce intelligent decentralised behaviour in such systems will be key to their development.

Autonomous systems that can be operated remotely are highly suited to disaster scene management, due to their dangerous and uncertain nature. This thesis outlines the design and implementation of the software component of a team of autonomous robots that implement a multi-phase disaster scene management plan. The problem domain involves robotic aerial vehicles that have sensors and actuators to interact with their environment.

First, the design and development of a virtual high-fidelity simulation environment using a game engine is outlined. This simulation environment was used extensively in the research project, ROCSAFE, which motivated the work in this thesis. It helped to address the problem of generating data to carry out training, testing and validation of systems used to aid hazardous scene management.

We then discuss the development of an autonomous software system to aid the surveillance of a disaster scene. We first address a surveying problem, whereby a swarm of aerial vehicles need to use sensors to record data at each point in a discretised region defined by a bounding polygon. This is a standard early phase of the forensic examination of a crime scene and the data gathered can be used to guide strategies during subsequent phases of the disaster management process.

The second is a stochastic search problem, where multiple agents are used to pinpoint the location of a target. "Target" means anything that can be sensed by the agents. It is assumed that agents are fitted with sensors and actuators and can move around the bounding region freely. Sensor readings are assumed to have some inherent noise, and a stochastic approach is presented to account for this. Results and analysis are presented to give insight into howthe software can be used to formulate search control strategies that achieve some realistic objectives.
